Jump to







Our experts answer readers' investing questions and write unbiased product reviews (here's how we assess investing products). Paid non-client promotion: In some cases, we receive a commission from our partners. Our opinions are always our own.
Forbes announced it will be shutting down its investment app Q.ai on December 8, 2023. The AI-powered platform used both active management and automated investing strategies. It offered AI-powered portfolios on a range of investment types, including stocks, ETFs, commodities, and cryptocurrencies.
If you have an existing Q.ai account, you must initiate a withdrawal and transfer your assets to a new account in an external investment app or online brokerage by December 8.
There are plenty of robo-advisors and AI-operated investment platforms to choose from. Depending on what you're looking for, you can sign up for expert trading with advanced AI features, or a low-cost automated portfolio managed through some of the best robo-advisors.
For a limited time: Earn a 1% bonus when you transfer your brokerage account to Robinhood, now through December 8, 2023. No cap on match. Terms apply.
$0 ($1 for fractional shares; $2,000 for margin trading
0% ($5/month for Robinhood Gold)
Here are eight of the best robo-advisors and AI-powered investing apps.
Betterment offers individual or joint accounts, IRAs, trust accounts, and cash reserve or checking accounts.
$0 to open, $10 to start investing ($100,000 for premium plan)
0.25%/year for digital plan; 0.40%/ year for premium plan; 1%/year for crypto portfolios
Betterment is best for hands-off investors who want to take advantage of professionally built, personalized ETF and cryptocurrency portfolios. The platform offers CFP access, so it could suit those in search of additional guidance from human advisors.
Betterment is our pick for the best overall robo-advisor because of its low fees, account flexibility, multiple portfolio options, and various investment options. A premium account with Betterment gets you unlimited access to certified financial planners (CFPs), but you'll need to meet a $100,000 minimum requirement. (A standard account has no minimum.)
With Betterment, you can invest with stock and bond ETFs and cryptocurrencies. The online brokerage is great for retirement-focused individuals and goal-based investors. 
Betterment review
N/A
$99 per year (or $29.99 per month)
Tykr is an AI-powered stock screening platform great for all kinds of investors who want to implement active investing strategies. It can be a great addition to an external brokerage account, but you have to be willing to pay the extra cost.
Tykr is an AI-powered stock screening investing platform that assists you in trading assets like stocks, ETFs, and cryptocurrencies through safe, conservative, and passive investing strategies. Tykr's AI gives stocks and other assets an overall financial strength score from 0 to 100 based on the asset's return in the market. 
Active investors (including beginners interested in hands-on investing) can benefit from the portfolio tracker, stock watchlist, community features, and trade journal. Tykr's goal is to help investors trade and make better investment decisions through personalized stock recommendations, expert insight, and up-to-date market data. 
Tykr doesn't offer CFPs, but it does encourage users to pair its platform with advice from a financial advisor. 
Tykr charges $29.99 monthly, or $99 annually (which comes to about $8.25 per month). It's currently offering a free 14-day trial.
$0
$12.50 per month (or $120 annually)
Streetbeat is an online AI-powered trading platform suitable for both hands-off and hands-on investors. But beginners may struggle to use the platform.
Streetbeat is an AI-powered automated trading platform that provides users with access to multiple personalized investment portfolios, as well as DIY investing through the app. AI tracks real-time news and market changes for advanced investing strategies. 
You can connect Streetbeat to an existing Robinhood brokerage account, or open a new account on Streetbeat when you create an investment portfolio. Streetbeat doesn't offer human advisor access.
There are no management fees with Streetbeat, but you will have to pay $12.50 per month (or $120 annually). It's currently offering a seven-day free trial period. 
Fund your first taxable investment account with at least $500 in the first 30 days of account opening and earn a $50 bonus.
$1 ($500 for automated investing)
$0 for stock trades. 0.25% for automated investing (0.06% to 0.13% for fund fees)
Wealthfront is one of the best robo-advisor options if you're in search of low-cost automated portfolio management, and one of the best socially responsible investing apps for features like tax-loss harvesting, US direct indexing, and crypto trusts.
Wealthfront is one of the best robo-advisors for low-cost automated trading and portfolio management. It offers ETFs, index funds, crypto trusts, ESG portfolios, and emerging market stocks. It even has a high-yield bond portfolio.
Hands-off investors and beginners can use Wealthfront's automated trading tools like auto-rebalancing, smart-beta technology, US direct indexing, and tax-loss harvesting. But there's no human advisor access.
Wealthfront has a $500 minimum requirement to start investing. 
Wealthfront review
Earn a $20 bonus when you open a new account and make your first successful recurring investment (min $5). Receive your bonus within 10 days of following month
$5
Monthly plans start at $3 for Personal, $5 for Personal Plus, and $9 for Premium
Acorns is one of the best investment apps for beginners and hand-off investors who want to start investing but are overwhelmed by the choices with other investing apps. This simple and easy-to-use platform offers a low investment minimum, portfolio diversification, and beginner-friendly charting tools. Acorns is more expensive than other zero-fee apps out there, but the ease of use may make it worthwhile for certain users.
Acorns is one of the best investment apps for beginners. It's a robo-advisor providing simplified trading and beginner-friendly charting tools. Acorns mainly invest in ETFs for easy portfolio diversification, but you can pay extra to trade individual stocks or add bitcoin-linked ETFs. 
There's a $5 minimum to get started and a minimum $3 monthly fee (varies by account type). Acorns is great for mobile users. Plus, it offers additional banking, emergency savings, and retirement savings options all in one location. 
Acorns is great for beginners but it doesn't offer human advisor access or advanced charting features. 
Acorns Invest review
No minimum
standard account charges $84 per month ($999 annually)
Trade Ideas is AI-powered robo-advisor best used when paired with an external brokerage account. Only advanced and hands-on investors willing to pay the high monthly fee should open an account with Trade Ideas.
Trade Ideas is an AI-powered robo-advisor that uses pre-formulated built-in scanners to analyze potential investing strategies through backtesting. Trade Ideas offers a suite of advanced trading charts and tools designed to be paired with an external brokerage account. 
Experienced investors wanting in-depth analysis, pre-built stock scans, simulated trading strategies, and real-time stock racing can benefit from Trade Ideas. But keep in mind that pricing is on the higher end. A standard account charges you $84 per month (or $999 annually) and Trade Ideas Premium charges $167 per month (or $1,999 annually).
Trade Ideas also has a user chatroom and a vast educational library of instructional and educational videos. But there's no human advisor access.
New M1 Finance users who open a brokerage account can earn up to $500 if they invest at least $75 in their account within 14 days of opening (offer ends December 31, 2023)
$100 ($500 for IRAs)
0% (cryptocurrencies are commission-free, but Apex Crypto takes 1% fee on transactions); $10/month M1 Plus
M1 Finance is one of the best investment apps and could be a good choice if you're interested in trading stocks, ETFs, fractional shares, and cryptocurrencies. It offers both DIY trading and automated account features that make it suitable for both active and passive investors.
M1 Finance is an online brokerage offering both automated and DIY investing through pie-based models. Passive and active investors can trade stocks, ETFs, fractional shares, and crypto through standard brokerage accounts, retirement accounts, and custodial accounts. 
M1 Finance's robo-advisor is best for people who already have an M1 Finance bank account, loan, or credit card. But those looking for the convenience of automated trading paired with the flexibility of active investing strategies can also benefit. The brokerage has a $100 minimum requirement. 
However, M1 Finance doesn't offer human advisor access. 
M1 Finance review
$0
N/A
Quantum AI is an AI-generated trading platform best for both beginner and experienced cryptocurrency investors. It’s not great for non-crypto focused investors.
Quantum AI is an AI-operated trading platform for crypto. It uses AI algorithms and analysis to track current trends and trades on the crypto market. Both beginners and experienced cryptocurrency investors can benefit from Quantum AI's easy-to-use platform and automated trading.
It's a secure platform offering various read-made trading strategies, a free demo mode, and 24/7 support. Quantum AI supports cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, ether, litecoin, and ripple. Moreover, the platform is free with no trading fees. 
If you're not interested in trading cryptocurrencies, this isn't the platform for you.  


Learn more:

Top 15 Best Robo Advisors
Robo Advisor Pros and Cons
BI's Robo Investing Reviews
Who Uses Robo Advisors?
Top Robo Advisor Conferences





Learn more:

Top 15 Best Robo Advisors
Robo Advisor Pros and Cons
BI's Robo Investing Reviews
Who Uses Robo Advisors?
Top Robo Advisor Conferences



